Thermodynamics is principally based on a set of four laws which are universally
valid when applied to systems that fall within the constraints implied by each.
In the various theoretical descriptions of thermodynamics these laws may be
expressed in seemingly differing forms, but the most prominent formulations
are the following.

The zeroth law of thermodynamics states: If two systems are each in thermal
equilibrium with a third, they are also in thermal equilibrium with each other.

This statement implies that thermal equilibrium is an equivalence relation on
the set of thermodynamic systems under consideration. Systems are said to be in
equilibrium if the small, random exchanges between them (e.g. Brownian motion)
do not lead to a net change in energy. This law is tacitly assumed in every
measurement of temperature. Thus, if one seeks to decide whether two bodies are
at the same temperature, it is not necessary to bring them into contact and
measure any changes of their observable properties in time. The law providesan
empirical definition of temperature, and justification for the construction of
practical thermometers.

The zeroth law was not initially recognized as a separate law of thermodynamics,
as its basis in thermodynamical equilibrium was implied in the other laws. The
first, second, and third laws had been explicitly stated already, and found
common acceptance in the physics community before the importance of the zeroth
law for the definition of temperature was realized. As it was impractical to
renumber the other laws, it was named the zeroth law.

The first law of thermodynamics states: In a process without transfer of matter,
the change in internal energy, ΔU, of a thermodynamic system is equal to the
energy gained as heat, Q, less the thermodynamic work, W, done by the system on
its surroundings.

ΔU=Q-W

For processes that include transfer of matter, a further statement is needed:
With due account of the respective fiducial reference states of the systems,
when two systems, which may be of different chemical compositions, initially
separated only by an impermeable wall, and otherwise isolated, are combined into
a new system by the thermodynamic operation of removal of the wall, then
U_0=U_1+U_2, where U0 denotes the internal energy of the combined system,and U1
and U2 denote the internal energies of the respective separated systems.

Adapted for thermodynamics, this law is an expression of the principle of
conservation of energy, which states that energy can be transformed (changed
from one form to another), but cannot be created or destroyed.

Internal energy is a principal property of the thermodynamic state, while heat
and work are modes of energy transfer by which a process may change this state.
A change of internal energy of a system may be achieved by any combination of
heat added or removed and work performed on or by the system. As a function of
state, the internal energy does not depend on the manner, or on the path through
intermediate steps, by which the system arrived at its state.

The second law of thermodynamics states: Heat cannot spontaneously flow from a
colder location to a hotter location.

This law is an expression of the universal principle of decay observable in
nature. The second law is an observation of the fact that over time, differences
in temperature, pressure, and chemical potential tend to even out in a physical
system that is isolated from the outside world. Entropy is a measure of how much
this process has progressed. The entropy of an isolated system which is not in
equilibrium will tend to increase over time, approaching a maximum value at
equilibrium. However, principles guiding systems that are far from equilibrium
are still debatable. One of such principles is the maximum entropy production
principle. It states that non-equilibrium systems behave such a way as to
maximize its entropy production.

In classical thermodynamics, the second law is a basic postulate applicable to
any system involving heat energy transfer; in statistical thermodynamics, the
second law is a consequence of the assumed randomness of molecular chaos. There
are many versions of the second law, but they all have the same effect, which is
to explain the phenomenon of irreversibility in nature.

The third law of thermodynamics states: As the temperature of a system
approaches absolute zero, all processes cease and the entropy of the system
approaches a minimum value.

This law of thermodynamics is a statistical law of nature regarding entropy and
the impossibility of reaching absolute zero of temperature. This law provides an
absolute reference point for the determination of entropy. The entropy
determined relative to this point is the absolute entropy. Alternate definitions
include "the entropy of all systems and of all states of a system is smallest at
absolute zero," or equivalently "it is impossible to reach the absolute zero of
temperature by any finite number of processes".

Absolute zero, at which all activity would stop if it were possible to achieve,
is −273.15 °C (degrees Celsius), or −459.67 °F (degrees Fahrenheit), or 0 K
(kelvin), or 0° R (degrees Rankine).
